4.14 GA Installer bug fix RNs (#66748)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-14-release-notes.adoc

* Previously, when running the `openshift-install agent create image` command while using a releaseImage that contained a digest, the command produced the following warning message: `WARNING The ImageContentSources configuration in install-config.yaml should have at-least one source field matching the releaseImage`. This message was produced every time, regardless of how `ImageContentSources` was configured, which might have caused user confusion over the false message.
+
With this update, the warning message is only produced when `ImageContentSources` is legitimately not set to have at least one source field matching the release image. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-10207[*OCPBUGS-10207*])

> * Previously, when running the `openshift-install agent create image` command to generate a bootable ISO image, the command output provided a message indicating a successful generated image even if the Agent Installer could not extract a base ISO image from the release image. With this update, the command output now produces an error message if the Agent-based Installer could not locate the base ISO image, which might be indicative of an issue with `releaseImage`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-9949[*OCPBUGS-9949*])

Author: yes

* Previously, shared VPC installations on GCP using passthrough credentials mode could fail because the installation program used credentials from the default service account. With this update, you can specify another service account to use for node creation instead of the default. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-15421[*OCPBUGS-15421*])

> * Previously, if you defined more control plane nodes than compute nodes in either the `agent-config.yaml` or the `nmstateconfig.yaml` configuration file, you would receive a warning message. Now, if you specify this configuration in either file, you would receive an error message, which is more indicative that compute nodes must exceed control plane nodes in either file. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-14877[*OCPBUGS-14877*])

Reviewer: ^I looked at the bug text and it looks like "cannot" is the word used.

> * Previously, an Agent-based installation would fail if a non-canonical IPv6 address was used for the `RendezvousIP` in the `agent-config.yaml` file. Non-canonical IPv6 addresses, for example, contain leading zeros such as `2001:0db8:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000`. With this update, these valid addresses can now be used for the `RendezvousIP`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-14121[*OCPBUGS-14121*])

Author: field

* The Manila CSI Driver Operator automatically creates an OpenShift storage class for each available Manila share type. As part of this operation, the Operator queries the Manila API. Previously, the Operator cached the cloud credentials, which resulted in authentication issues when these credentials were rotated. Now, the Operator always uses the latest credentials. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-14049[*OCPBUGS-14049*])

> * Previously, when configuring the `install-config.yaml` file for use during an Agent-based installation, changing the `cpuPartitioning` field to a non-default value would not produce a warning to alert users that the field is ignored for Agent-based installations. With this update, changing the `cpuPartitioning` field will cause a warning to users that the configuration will not impact the install. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-13662[*OCPBUGS-13662*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, when configuring the `install-config.yaml` file for use during an Agent-based installation, changing the `cpuPartitioning` field to a non-default value did not produce a warning to alert users that the field is ignored for Agent-based installations. With this update, changing the `cpuPartitioning` field causes a warning to users that the configuration will not impact the install. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-13662[*OCPBUGS-13662*])
```

> * Previously, installing an Azure cluster into an existing Azure Virtual Network (VNet) might have failed because the installation program created a default network security group, which allowed traffic from `0.0.0.0`. The failure occurred when the existing VNet had the following rule enabled in the tenant: `Rule: Network Security Groups shall not allow rule with 0.0.0.0/Any Source/Destination IP Addresses - Custom Deny`. With this fix, the installation program no longer creates the default network security group when installing a cluster into an existing VNet, and the installation succeeds. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-11796[*OCPBUGS-11796*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, installing an Azure cluster into an existing Azure Virtual Network (VNet) could fail because the installation program created a default network security group, which allowed traffic from `0.0.0.0`. The failure occurred when the existing VNet had the following rule enabled in the tenant: `Rule: Network Security Groups shall not allow rule with 0.0.0.0/Any Source/Destination IP Addresses - Custom Deny`. With this fix, the installation program no longer creates the default network security group when installing a cluster into an existing VNet, and the installation succeeds. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-11796[*OCPBUGS-11796*])
```

> * During an installation, when the cluster status is `installing-pending-user-action` the installation won't complete until the status is resolved. Previously, if the user ran the `openshift-install agent wait-for bootstrap-complete` command there would be no indication of how to resolve the problem causing this status. With this update, the command output provides a message indicating which actions must be taken by the user to resolve the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* During an installation, when the cluster status is `installing-pending-user-action`, the installation won't complete until the status is resolved. Previously, if you ran the `openshift-install agent wait-for bootstrap-complete` command, there was no indication of how to resolve the problem causing this status. With this update, the command output provides a message indicating which actions must be taken to resolve the issue.
```

+

> As an example, the `wait-for` output when an invalid boot disk is used is now:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the `wait-for` output when an invalid boot disk is used is now as follows:
```

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer: I think a `+` is needed above this to make it indented at the same level as the text above it.

----
"level=info msg=Cluster has hosts requiring user input
level=debug msg=Host master-1 Expected the host to boot from disk, but it booted the installation image - please reboot and fix boot order to boot from disk QEMU_HARDDISK drive-scsi0-0-0-0 (sda, /dev/disk/by-path/pci-0000:03:00.0-scsi-0:0:0:0)
level=debug msg=Host master-2 Expected the host to boot from disk, but it booted the installation image - please reboot and fix boot order to boot from disk QEMU_HARDDISK drive-scsi0-0-0-0 (sda, /dev/disk/by-path/pci-0000:03:00.0-scsi-0:0:0:0)
level=info msg=cluster has stopped installing... working to recover installation"
----

> (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-4998[*OCPBUGS-4998*])

Reviewer: This looks kind of odd hanging out by itself after the example and not indented. Maybe move it to the end of the first paragraph?

> * Previously, the assisted-installer-controller on the installed cluster would run continuously even after the cluster had completed installation. Because assisted-service runs on the bootstrap node and not on the cloud, and because the assisted-service goes offline after the bootstrap node reboots to join the cluster, the assisted-installer-controller was unable to communicate with assisted-service to post updates and upload logs and loops. In this version, the bug fix modifies the assisted-installer-controller to check the cluster installation without using assisted-service, and to exit when the cluster installation is complete. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-4240[*OCPBUGS-4240*])

Reviewer: Should assisted-installer-controller, assisted-service be [in backticks](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#quick-markup-reference)?

> * Previously, the assisted-installer-controller on the installed cluster would run continuously even after the cluster had completed installation. Because assisted-service runs on the bootstrap node and not on the cloud, and because the assisted-service goes offline after the bootstrap node reboots to join the cluster, the assisted-installer-controller was unable to communicate with assisted-service to post updates and upload logs and loops. In this version, the bug fix modifies the assisted-installer-controller to check the cluster installation without using assisted-service, and to exit when the cluster installation is complete. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-4240[*OCPBUGS-4240*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, the assisted-installer-controller on the installed cluster would run continuously even after the cluster had completed installation. Because assisted-service runs on the bootstrap node and not on the cloud, and because the assisted-service goes offline after the bootstrap node reboots to join the cluster, the assisted-installer-controller was unable to communicate with assisted-service to post updates and upload logs and loops. Now, the assisted-installer-controller checks the cluster installation without using assisted-service, and exits when the cluster installation is complete. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-4240[*OCPBUGS-4240*])
```

* Previously, installing a cluster to the AWS Commercial Cloud Services (C2S) `us-iso-east-1` region failed with an error message stating an `UnsupportedOperation`. With this fix, installing to this region now succeeds. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-2324[*OCPBUGS-2324*])

> * Previously, installations on AWS could fail because the installation program did not create the cloud.conf file with the necessary service endpoints in it. This led to the machine config operator creating an empty cloud.conf file that lacked the service endpoints, leading to an error. With this update, the installation program always creates the cloud.conf file so that the installation succeeds. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-20401[*OCPBUGS-20401*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, installations on AWS could fail because the installation program did not create the `cloud.conf` file with the necessary service endpoints in it. This led to the machine config operator creating an empty `cloud.conf` file that lacked the service endpoints, leading to an error. With this update, the installation program always creates the `cloud.conf` file so that the installation succeeds. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-20401[*OCPBUGS-20401*])
```

> * Previously, if you installed a cluster using the Agent-based installer and your pull secret had a null "auth" or "email" field, the installation would fail without providing a useful error. With this update, the `openshift-install agent wait-for install-complete` command validates your pull secret and notifies you if there are null fields. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-14405[*OCPBUGS-14405*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, if you installed a cluster using the Agent-based installer and your pull secret had a null `auth` or `email` field, the installation would fail without providing a useful error. With this update, the `openshift-install agent wait-for install-complete` command validates your pull secret and notifies you if there are null fields. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-14405[*OCPBUGS-14405*])
```

> * Previously the `create agent-config-template` command printed a line with `INFO` only but no details about whether the command was successful and where the template file was written to. Now, if the command is successful, the command will print `INFO Created Agent Config Template in <path> directory`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-13408[*OCPBUGS-13408*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, the `create agent-config-template` command printed a line with `INFO` only, but no details about whether the command was successful and where the template file was written to. Now, if the command is successful, the command will print `INFO Created Agent Config Template in <path> directory`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-13408[*OCPBUGS-13408*])
```

> * Previously, when a user specified the 'vendor' hint in the `agent-config.yaml` file, the value was being checked against the wrong field so that the hint would not match. With this update, the use of the `vendor` hint correctly selects a disk. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-13356[*OCPBUGS-13356*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, when a user specified the `vendor` hint in the `agent-config.yaml` file, the value was checked against the wrong field so that the hint would not match. With this update, the use of the `vendor` hint correctly selects a disk. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-13356[*OCPBUGS-13356*])
```

> * For clusters that run on {rh-openstack} that you upgrade to 4.14 and have root volume availability zones, you must converge control plane machines onto one server group before you can enable control plane machine sets. To make the required change, follow the instructions in link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7013893[OpenShift on OpenStack with Availability Zones: Invalid Compute ServerGroup setup during OpenShift deployment]. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-13300[*OCPBUGS-13300*])

Reviewer: This doesn't seem like a bug fix to me? It seems more like it would go in "notable technical change" or a different section.

Author: good catch!

* Previously, setting the `metadataService.authentication` field to `Required` when installing a cluster on AWS did not configure the bootstrap VM to use IMDSv2 authentication. This could result in installations failing if you configured your AWS account to block IMDSv1 authentication. With this update, the `metadataService.authentication` field correctly configures the bootstrap VM to use IMDSv2 authentication when set to `Required`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-12964[*OCPBUGS-12964*])

* Previously, if you configured user-defined outbound routing when installing a private Azure cluster, the cluster was incorrectly deployed with the default public load balancer. This behavior occurred when using the installer-provisioned infrastructure to install the cluster. With this update, the installation program no longer creates the public load balancer when user-defined routing is configured. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-9404[*OCPBUGS-9404*])

> * Previously, the vSphere Terraform `vsphere_virtual_machine` resource did not include the `firmware` parameter. This issue caused the firmware of the virtual machine (VM) to be set to `bios` by default instead of `efi`. Now, the resource includes the `firmware` parameter and sets `efi` as the default value for the parameter, so that the VM runs the Extensible Firmware Interface (EFI) instead of the basic input/output system (BIOS) interface. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-9378[OCPBUGS-9378*)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, the vSphere Terraform `vsphere_virtual_machine` resource did not include the `firmware` parameter. This issue caused the firmware of the VM to be set to `bios` by default instead of `efi`. Now, the resource includes the `firmware` parameter and sets `efi` as the default value for the parameter, so that the VM runs the Extensible Firmware Interface (EFI) instead of the basic input/output system (BIOS) interface. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-9378[OCPBUGS-9378*)
```

> * Previously, for clusters that run on {rh-openstack}, in the deprovisioning phase of installation, the installer deleted Object storage containers sequentially. This behavior caused slow and inefficient deletion of objects, especially with large containers. This problem occurred in part because image streams that use Swift containers accumulated objects over time. Now, bulk object deletion now occurs concurrently with up to 3 calls to the {rh-openstack} API, improving efficiency by handling a higher object count per call. This optimization speeds up resource cleanup during deprovisioning. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-9081[*OCPBUGS-9081*])

Reviewer: checking that "Object" and "Swift" should be capitalized

* Previously, the installation program did not exit with an error if you installed a cluster on Azure using disk encryption without providing a subscription ID. This caused the installation to begin only to fail later on. With this update, the installation program requires you to specify a subscription ID for encrypted Azure installations and exits with an error if you do not provide one. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-8449[*OCPBUGS-8449*])

> * Previously, the Agent-based installer showed the results of secondary checks such as ping and nslookup, which can harmlessly fail even when the installation succeeds. This could result in errors being displayed despite the cluster installing successfully. With this update, secondary checks only display their results if the primary installation checks fail, so that you can use the secondary checks to troubleshoot the failed installation. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-8390[*OCPBUGS-8390*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, the Agent-based installer showed the results of secondary checks such as `ping` and `nslookup`, which can harmlessly fail even when the installation succeeds. This could result in errors being displayed despite the cluster installing successfully. With this update, secondary checks only display results if the primary installation checks fail, so that you can use the secondary checks to troubleshoot the failed installation. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-8390[*OCPBUGS-8390*])
```

* Using an IPI `install-config` with the Agent-based Installer results in warning log messages showing the contents of any unused fields. Previously, these warnings printed sensitive information such as passwords. With this update, the warning messages for the credentials fields in the `vsphere` and `baremetal` platform sections have been changed to avoid logging any sensitive information. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-8203[*OCPBUGS-8203*])

> * Previously, SSH access to bootstrap and cluster nodes failed when the bastion host ran in the same VPC network as the cluster nodes. Additionally, this configuration caused SSH access from the temporary bootstrap node to the cluster nodes to fail. These issues are now fixed by updating the the IBM Cloud `SecurityGroupRules` to support SSH traffic between the temporary bootstrap node and cluster nodes, and to support SSH traffic from a bastion host to cluster nodes on the same VPC network. Log and debug information can be accuretly collected for analysis during installer-provisioned infrastructure failure.(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-8035[*OCPBUGS-8035*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, SSH access to bootstrap and cluster nodes failed when the bastion host ran in the same VPC network as the cluster nodes. Additionally, this configuration caused SSH access from the temporary bootstrap node to the cluster nodes to fail. These issues are now fixed by updating the the IBM Cloud `SecurityGroupRules` to support SSH traffic between the temporary bootstrap node and cluster nodes, and to support SSH traffic from a bastion host to cluster nodes on the same VPC network. Log and debug information can be accurately collected for analysis during installer-provisioned infrastructure failure.(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-8035[*OCPBUGS-8035*])
```

> * Previously, DNS records that the installation program created were not removed when uninstalling a private cluster. With this update, the installation program now correctly removes these DNS records. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-7973[OCPBUGS-7973])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, DNS records that the installation program created were not removed when uninstalling a private cluster. With this update, the installation program now removes these DNS records. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-7973[OCPBUGS-7973])
```

> * Previously, clusters on Azure Stack Hub could not create new control plane nodes unless the nodes had custom disk sizes because the default disk size could not be validated. With this update, the default disk size has been set to 128 GB and the installation program enforces user-specified disk size values between 128 and 1023 GB. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-6759[*OCPBUGS-6759*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, clusters on Azure Stack Hub could not create new control plane nodes unless the nodes had custom disk sizes, because the default disk size could not be validated. With this update, the default disk size has been set to 128 GB and the installation program enforces user-specified disk size values between 128 and 1023 GB. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-6759[*OCPBUGS-6759*])
```

* Previously, DNS records that the installation program created were not removed when uninstalling a private cluster. With this update, the installation program now removes these DNS records. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-7973[OCPBUGS-7973])

* Previously, clusters on Azure Stack Hub could not create new control plane nodes unless the nodes had custom disk sizes, because the default disk size could not be validated. With this update, the default disk size has been set to 128 GB and the installation program enforces user-specified disk size values between 128 and 1023 GB. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-6759[*OCPBUGS-6759*])

> * Previously, the installation program used port 80 to provide images to the Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) and the deployment agent when installing on bare metal with installer-provisioned infrastructure. This could present security concerns because many types of public traffic use port 80. With this update, the installation program uses port 6180 for this purpose. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-8509[*OCPBUGS-8509*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, the installation program used port `80` to provide images to the Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) and the deployment agent when installing on bare metal with installer-provisioned infrastructure. This could present security concerns because many types of public traffic use port `80`. With this update, the installation program uses port `6180` for this purpose. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-8509[*OCPBUGS-8509*])
```

Author: fixed.
